## Basic Information

Project Name: dShips

Date of Project Establishment (Which year and month): 20/10/2023

## Overall Project Profile

### Project Background/Origin/Problem to be solved

In certain parts of the world to receive a package of a purchase is necessary to give data to corroborate that one is the owner of the package, let's imagine that we buy a 70-inch TV, and to receive it I need to give my full name, my id or dni, plus my home address which is explicit, and a package that is too obvious. Maybe I don't want to give so many details but still corroborate that I am the owner of the package. This is why dShips was created, a system with the idea of making parcel courier services without revealing unnecessary information.

### Project Description

dShips is currently a proof of concept, consisting of three users: administrator, shipper and receiver.

- Seller: Currently in charge of creating shipments, assigning address A, address B and the receiver's address.
- Deliverer: He assigns himself the package(s) to be delivered and is in charge of looking for them in address A and taking them to B.
- Receiver: Must show a QR with a proof of ownership of the package.

### Project Demo

### Technical Architecture

### The project logo

### The start of the project commit

For a brand new project can be a clone of an open source framework, such as blockchain clone from substrate-node-template, react framework, etc., please give a description. For mature projects it can be a BRANCH, which is required to be generated after November 1, 2023, state what features are already available

## Things planned to be accomplished during the hackathon

- Perform a proof of concept through a smart contract to verify the feasibility and approval of the project.
- Understand the users involved and their tasks.

**Smart Contract**

- [ ] Create a shipment
- [ ] Verify deliverymen
- [ ] Assign yourself as a delivery person
- [ ] Indicate package status
- [ ] Deliver package

**Client**

- [ ] Admin dashboard
- [ ] Carrier dashboard
- [ ] Receiver dashboard

## Things accomplished during the Hackathon (submitted by 11:59am Dec 22, 2023 initial review)

- By December 22, 2023, 11:59 AM, list in this column the feature points that were finalized during the hackathon.
- Place the relevant code in the `src` directory and list in this column the development work done during the hackathon and the code structure. We will do a focused technical review of these directories/files.
- Demo videos, ppts and other large files should not be submitted. You can store their link addresses in the readme

## Things that are planned after the hackathon

| User/Area | Description |
| **General** | Create a pallet for the correct functioning of the whole system and easy integration with marketplaces. |
| **Seller** | Automatically generate shipments on demand. |
| **Carrier** | Optimize or improve the verification of the carrier
Apply a payment rate for the carrier, generated by the supply-demand of the moment or applied by the receiver (pending analysis) that is released at the moment when the receiver and carrier confirm the delivery.
Create a mobile dApp to facilitate the delivery driver's work. |
| **Receiver** | Generate true ZK proofs. |

## Team Information

Include the name and introduction of the participant
Role in the team
GitHub account
WeChat account (if you have one, please leave it to facilitate timely contact)
